nytimes Strawberry Pudding Cake

INGREDIENTS
Yield:
4 servings
4tablespoons/57 grams unsalted butter, melted, plus more for greasing the skillet
1lemon
12ounces fresh strawberries (preferably small to medium), hulled and cut into halves or quarters
¾cup/151 grams granulated sugar
Fine sea salt
¾cup/96 grams all-purpose flour
2teaspoons baking powder
⅓cup/80 milliliters whole milk
1¼cups/300 milliliters boiling water
Confectioners’ sugar or sweetened whipped cream, for serving

Add to Your Grocery List
Ingredient Substitution Guide
Nutritional Information
PREPARATION
Step 1
Heat the oven to 425 degrees. Butter a 9- to 10-inch skillet, about 2 inches deep (preferably cast iron).

Step 2
From the lemon, finely grate 2 teaspoons zest into the melted butter and set aside. Squeeze 1 tablespoon lemon juice into a medium bowl and add strawberries, ¼ cup granulated sugar and ¼ teaspoon salt; toss until the sugar has started to become syrupy, coating the berries. (Using a hand to toss here helps the sugar melt faster.) Set aside.

Step 3
In a separate medium bowl, whisk together the flour, baking powder, remaining ½ cup granulated sugar and ½ teaspoon salt. Mix the milk into the melted butter. Slowly pour the milk mixture into the dry ingredients while stirring with a spatula or spoon until just combined. The batter will be thick but spreadable.

Step 4
Transfer batter to the buttered skillet and spread in an even layer. Arrange the strawberries in the batter, cut sides down, pressing them slightly. Pour their syrup over the top, then carefully pour the boiling water over the top.

Step 5
Bake on the middle rack of the oven until the cake is golden brown and a warm, pudding-like sauce has formed below the strawberries, 25 to 27 minutes.

Step 6
Dust with confectioners’ sugar or serve with sweetened whipped cream, if desired. Serve warm. As the pudding cake sits, the pudding will eventually soak into the cake, so is best enjoyed sooner rather than later. (To reheat, heat at 300 degrees, uncovered, for 10 to 15 minutes.)

TIP
With a convection fan-equipped oven, this cake can also achieve a crisp and browned topping in a round or square glass baking dish at 400 degrees. Baking time will most likely be a little less than in Step 4, so look for the visual cues for doneness.